doc(kb): workaround for Harvester live migration stuck (#1139)
longhorn/website: content/kb/troubleshooting-rwx-volume-migration-stuck.md

    csi-473853237b61d7ea80ea8f3b9306d82c55ccf36744ee88212ee95c4c2f299edb:
      Type:                csi-attacher
      ...
    csi-bf34f58ee9ac935d1120e60253c7a4f9c1e73afc411677278848d0f1bcaace96:
      Type:                csi-attacher
      ...
  Volume:                  pvc-abcdefg
Status:
  Attachment Ticket Statuses:
    csi-473853237b61d7ea80ea8f3b9306d82c55ccf36744ee88212ee95c4c2f299edb:
      Conditions:
        Last Transition Time:  2025-06-19T07:24:07Z
        Message:               The migrating attachment ticket is satisfied
        Status:                True
        Type:                  Satisfied
      Generation:              0
      Id:                      csi-473853237b61d7ea80ea8f3b9306d82c55ccf36744ee88212ee95c4c2f299edb
      Satisfied:               true
    csi-bf34f58ee9ac935d1120e60253c7a4f9c1e73afc411677278848d0f1bcaace96:
      Conditions:
        Last Transition Time:  2025-06-19T06:01:18Z
        Status:                True
        Type:                  Satisfied
      Generation:              0
      Id:                      csi-bf34f58ee9ac935d1120e60253c7a4f9c1e73afc411677278848d0f1bcaace96
      Satisfied:               true
```

## Reason

> There are cases where Longhorn fails to finalise RWX volume migration even after successful attachment on the destination node. This incomplete migration blocks Harvester VM live migration, leaving it stuck in the pre-drain stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are cases where Longhorn fails to finalise RWX volume migration even after successful attachment on the destination node. This incomplete migration blocks Harvester VM live migration, leaving it stuck in the pre-drain stage.
```

It is due to the potential issue in kubelet. Can you add the information of this and the related messages we have seen in the support bundle?

---
title: "Troubleshooting: RWX volume migration stuck"
authors:
- "Raphanus Lo"
draft: false
date: 2025-06-23
versions:
- "all"
categories:
- "RWX volume"
---

> ## Applicable versions
> 
> Confirmed with:
> 
> - Longhorn `v1.7.3`
> - Harvester `v1.4.1`
> 
> Likely possible with:
> 
> - Any Longhorn version
> - Any Harvester version
> - A potential variety of Linux distributions and versions
> 
> ## Symptoms
> 
> Longhorn RWX volume migration is triggered in Harvester pre-drain stage. The engine and the replicas for destination
> node is ready, but Harvester node is stuck at pre-drain stage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Applicable Versions

**Confirmed working with**:

- Longhorn `v1.7.3`
- Harvester `v1.4.1`

**Potentially applicable to**:

- Any Longhorn version  
- Any Harvester version  
- Various Linux distributions and versions  

## Symptoms

During the Harvester pre-drain stage, Longhorn RWX volume migration is triggered. Although the engine and replicas on the destination node are ready, the Harvester node becomes stuck in the pre-drain stage.

Example volume state:
```

```yaml
Volume: pvc-abcdefg
  spec.nodeID: s1
  status:
    robustness: degraded
    state: attached

  Engine:
    name: pvc-abcdefg-e-1
    spec.nodeID: s1
    status:
      currentState: running
      currentReplicaAddressMap:
        - pvc-abcdefg-r-5d917bb3: 10.52.8.201:11840
        - pvc-abcdefg-r-fe42a309: 10.52.2.101:11812

    name: pvc-abcdefg-e-2
    spec.nodeID: t2
    status:
      currentState: running
      currentReplicaAddressMap:
        - pvc-abcdefg-r-3f99a289: 10.52.2.101:11823
        - pvc-abcdefg-r-aa3ef1d9: 10.52.8.201:11850
```

Describing the Longhorn volume CR, the migration node ID is specified:

```bash
$ kubectl describe lhv pvc-abcdefg
```

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: Volume
metadata:
  labels:
    longhornvolume: pvc-abcdefg
  name: pvc-abcdefg
  namespace: longhorn-system
  ...
spec:
  accessMode: rwx
  backingImage: default-image-klmt7
  dataEngine: v1
  image: longhornio/longhorn-engine:v1.7.3
  migratable: true
  migrationNodeID: t2
  nodeID: s1
  numberOfReplicas: 3
  ...
status:
  currentMigrationNodeID: t2
  currentNodeID: s1
  ownerID: s1
  robustness: degraded
  state: attached
  ...
```

> Describe the Longhorn volume attachment CR, the migrating attachment ticket is already satisfied:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
VolumeAttachment CR confirms that the migration ticket has been satisfied:
```

    csi-473853237b61d7ea80ea8f3b9306d82c55ccf36744ee88212ee95c4c2f299edb:
      Type:                csi-attacher
      ...
    csi-bf34f58ee9ac935d1120e60253c7a4f9c1e73afc411677278848d0f1bcaace96:
      Type:                csi-attacher
      ...
  Volume:                  pvc-abcdefg
Status:
  Attachment Ticket Statuses:
    csi-473853237b61d7ea80ea8f3b9306d82c55ccf36744ee88212ee95c4c2f299edb:
      Conditions:
        Last Transition Time:  2025-06-19T07:24:07Z
        Message:               The migrating attachment ticket is satisfied
        Status:                True
        Type:                  Satisfied
      Generation:              0
      Id:                      csi-473853237b61d7ea80ea8f3b9306d82c55ccf36744ee88212ee95c4c2f299edb
      Satisfied:               true
    csi-bf34f58ee9ac935d1120e60253c7a4f9c1e73afc411677278848d0f1bcaace96:
      Conditions:
        Last Transition Time:  2025-06-19T06:01:18Z
        Status:                True
        Type:                  Satisfied
      Generation:              0
      Id:                      csi-bf34f58ee9ac935d1120e60253c7a4f9c1e73afc411677278848d0f1bcaace96
      Satisfied:               true
```

## Reason

> There's some chance that Longhorn RWX volume does not trigger migration confirmation after the volume is correctly
> attached to the migration destination. The incomplete volume migration blocks the Harvester VM live migration in pre-drain stage.
> 
> ## Workaround
> 
> - Check the Kubernetes `volumeattachment` of the volume, and delete the orphaned one.
> - To Harvester VM, stop the VM.
> - Recheck the `volumeattachments.longhorn.io` and Kubernetes `volumeattachment`. It should be empty.
>     ```bash
>     $ kubectl get volumeattachments.longhorn.io -A | grep my-volume-name
>     $ kubectl get volumeattachment -A | grep my-volume-name
>     ```
> - Start Harvester VM if needed
> - Check if the pre-drain progresses after that.
> 
> ## Related information
> 
> - https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11149:
>     The original Longhorn issue documenting this failure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are cases where Longhorn fails to finalise RWX volume migration even after successful attachment on the destination node. This incomplete migration blocks Harvester VM live migration, leaving it stuck in the pre-drain stage.

## Workaround

1. Inspect Kubernetes `volumeattachment` resources and remove any orphaned entries.

2. Shut down the affected Harvester VM.

3. Verify cleanup of both Longhorn and Kubernetes volume attachments (`volumeattachments.longhorn.io` and `volumeattachment`):

    ```bash
    $ kubectl get volumeattachments.longhorn.io -A | grep pvc-abcdefg
    $ kubectl get volumeattachment -A | grep pvc-abcdefg
    ```

4. Restart the Harvester VM if necessary.

5. Confirm that the pre-drain process continues successfully.

## Related Information

- [Longhorn Issue #11149](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/11149): Original issue documenting this failure.

> E0619 14:51:06.136427    3122 kubelet.go:2049] [failed to "KillContainer" for "compute" with KillContainerError: "rpc error: code = DeadlineExceeded desc = > context deadline exceeded", failed to "KillPodSandbox" for "4b5de224-752c-4df4-8726-60758820bc67" with KillPodSandboxError: "rpc error: code = DeadlineExceeded>  desc = failed to stop container \"0e225776b23476e5bdfda4aad7b6e411d79b6427f0130d4a0a818daed63ff5e8\": an error occurs during waiting for container \"0e225776b23476e5bdfda4aad7b6e411d79b6427f0130d4a0a818daed63ff5e8\" to be killed: wait container \"0e225776b23476e5bdfda4aad7b6e411d79b6427f0130d4a0a818daed63ff5e8\": context deadline exceeded"]

> > E0619 14:51:06.136441    3122 pod_workers.go:1298] "Error syncing pod, skipping" err="[failed to \"KillContainer\" for \"compute\" with KillContainerError: > \"rpc error: code = DeadlineExceeded desc = context deadline exceeded\", failed to \"KillPodSandbox\" for \"4b5de224-752c-4df4-8726-60758820bc67\" with > KillPodSandboxError: \"rpc error: code = DeadlineExceeded desc = failed to stop container \\\"0e225776b23476e5bdfda4aad7b6e411d79b6427f0130d4a0a818daed63ff5e8\\\": an error occurs during waiting for container \\\"0e225776b23476e5bdfda4aad7b6e411d79b6427f0130d4a0a818daed63ff5e8\\\" to be killed: wait container \\\"0e225776b23476e5bdfda4aad7b6e411d79b6427f0130d4a0a818daed63ff5e8\\\": context deadline exceeded\"]" pod="my-namespace/virt-launcher-my-pod" podUID="4b5de224-752c-4df4-8726-60758820bc67"

Reviewer 2: I think we can put these into a code block. WDYT?

---

> title: "Troubleshooting: RWX volume migration stuck"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Troubleshooting: Migratable RWX volume migration stuck"
```

authors:
- "Raphanus Lo"
draft: false
date: 2025-06-23
versions:
- "all"
categories:

> - "RWX volume"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Migratable RWX volume"
```

---

## Applicable versions

**Confirmed working with**:

- Longhorn `v1.7.3`
- Harvester `v1.4.1`

**Potentially applicable to**:

- Any Longhorn version
- Any Harvester version
- Various Linux distributions and versions

## Symptoms

> During the Harvester pre-drain stage, Longhorn RWX volume migration is triggered. Although the engine and replicas on the destination node are ready, the Harvester node becomes stuck in the pre-drain stage.

Reviewer: Rename `RWX volume` to `Migratable RWX volume`

> During the Harvester pre-drain stage, Longhorn RWX volume migration is triggered. Although the engine and replicas on the destination node are ready, the Harvester node becomes stuck in the pre-drain stage.

Author: > I think it is a general issue for all VM migration. We don't need to mention Harvester here.

Or, shall we mention Kubevirt instead?

Example volume state:

```yaml
Volume: pvc-abcdefg
  spec.nodeID: s1
  status:
    robustness: degraded
    state: attached

  Engine:
    name: pvc-abcdefg-e-1
    spec.nodeID: s1
    status:
      currentState: running
      currentReplicaAddressMap:
        - pvc-abcdefg-r-5d917bb3: 10.52.8.201:11840
        - pvc-abcdefg-r-fe42a309: 10.52.2.101:11812

    name: pvc-abcdefg-e-2
    spec.nodeID: t2
    status:
      currentState: running
      currentReplicaAddressMap:
        - pvc-abcdefg-r-3f99a289: 10.52.2.101:11823
        - pvc-abcdefg-r-aa3ef1d9: 10.52.8.201:11850
```

> onghorn Volume CR indicating migration is in progress:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Longhorn Volume CR indicating migration is in progress:
```

    csi-473853237b61d7ea80ea8f3b9306d82c55ccf36744ee88212ee95c4c2f299edb:
      Type:                csi-attacher
      ...
    csi-bf34f58ee9ac935d1120e60253c7a4f9c1e73afc411677278848d0f1bcaace96:
      Type:                csi-attacher
      ...
  Volume:                  pvc-abcdefg
Status:
  Attachment Ticket Statuses:
    csi-473853237b61d7ea80ea8f3b9306d82c55ccf36744ee88212ee95c4c2f299edb:
      Conditions:
        Last Transition Time:  2025-06-19T07:24:07Z
        Message:               The migrating attachment ticket is satisfied
        Status:                True
        Type:                  Satisfied
      Generation:              0
      Id:                      csi-473853237b61d7ea80ea8f3b9306d82c55ccf36744ee88212ee95c4c2f299edb
      Satisfied:               true
    csi-bf34f58ee9ac935d1120e60253c7a4f9c1e73afc411677278848d0f1bcaace96:
      Conditions:
        Last Transition Time:  2025-06-19T06:01:18Z
        Status:                True
        Type:                  Satisfied
      Generation:              0
      Id:                      csi-bf34f58ee9ac935d1120e60253c7a4f9c1e73afc411677278848d0f1bcaace96
      Satisfied:               true
```

## Reason

> There are cases where Longhorn fails to finalise RWX volume migration even after successful attachment on the destination node. For example, potential issue in Kubelet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are cases where Longhorn fails to finalise Migratable RWX volume migration even after successful attachment on the destination node. For example, potential issue in Kubelet:
```
